So, now, these browser APIs over here,
we said Fetch is one of them,
we're gonna talk about some others.
But essentially,
the browser can do so much stuff, and
the browser exposes so
much of that stuff to JavaScript, and
has all these kind of like gadgets and
tricks and tips and things.
And if,
does anybody remember Inspector Gadget,
was this like cartoon
from when I was a kid.
I don't know if it's still around,
that has,
it's like this detective with
all this random capabilities,
just packed into a little hat, and
that is sort of like our web browser.
This is like a little logo on your screen,
but it can do so much stuff.
So, these browser APIs
are pretty large [LAUGH] in
terms of the surface area
of understanding stuff.
And so, do you have any guesses for
where I'm gonna recommend you go when
there's any thing a browser can or
might be able to do that you
would like to learn more about?
>> MDN.
>> MDN, woo, yes, MDN,
developer.mozilla.org.
So MDN is an amazing learning resource for
any kind of web related situation and,
look there's a dark mode toggle [LAUGH].
>> [LAUGH]
>> So okay, so let's say I wanna,
how does Fetch work again?
Okay, well, this is the fetch global
function, blah, blah, blah, okay.
But this is actually related to
the bigger picture Fetch API,
which relates not just to JavaScript,
but also the wider browser.
So I can find all these details
about the Fetch API and look,
a little breadcrumb to
a whole web API's section,
cool, cool, cool, cool,
nothing much to learn here.
And these are only the links
I've clicked recently.
[LAUGH] As you can see,
there is a lot going on.
So, again, we're not gonna, by any
means we're gonna scratch the surface.
We're not gonna by any means cover all of
the different browser APIs you should know
as a JavaScript developer.
None of that cuz it's an ever-growing
set and MDN is your friend.
Say it with me.
>> MDN is your friend.
>> Yes, and we're gonna be returning
to that over and over again.
Okay, so, when in doubt, checkout MDN for
fun JavaScript facts out the wazoo.
So, browser API's,
let's talk about a couple of things
that we can access in JavaScript.
So one thing is we get a fun little window
object, wouldn't really call it an API so
much is like an interface to all
kinds of stuff that's happening here.
So there is a global variable window
which poke around in the console,
gives you essentially the window
where you currently find yourself.
And by you,
I mean this little JavaScript script.
[LAUGH] So we can look, for
example, at like, okay,
what is the location of the current
tab in our modern sense that I'm in?
Each tab is its own window,
because names are hard.
And the location might be, for
example, to the window API docs on MDN.
Guess what?
The window is kind of also where
we have all of these other
handy things that JavaScript
exposes to us as global variables.
So like for example, we're used to
typing document.getelement blah, blah,
that's actually the value of the document
property on the window object.
It's just a handy convenience
that the browser exposes
that to us in JavaScript as
the global variable document.
And likewise, the console.logs that
we all know and love are also,
all of this stuff is in the window, so the
window kind of is like, has everything.
So there's all kinds of fun things you
can poke around in there if you wanna see
what else is going on.
There's also a property
called the navigator.
And this is, I guess,
a throwback to like Netscape days but
the navigator basically
means the browser and
it's sort of like what's
going on with this piece of
software that the user is
using to read my webpage.
So there's all kinds of
interesting stuff in there.
Again, poke around in your console,
see what you can find.
But for example on my MacBook,
it knows what kind of CPU I'm writing,
it also has this, there's a handy and
often use dot user
agent property that tells you,
I'm in Mozilla, so
Firefox browser which is running Gecko,
which is Mozilla's or
Firefox's browser engine,
analogous to Chromium.
If you're in Chrome,
you probably see Chromium there, yeah?
Anybody else got any other
fun user agent values?
And yeah, and again, it knows even what
kind of architecture I'm running on.
So, all kinds of fun stuff in there.